---
---
*chapter 11*
contains 3 4 content.

Physical count: The process of counting every item of inventory on hand to verify the accuracy of the inventory cards and detect and inventory losses or gains.

- Referring to 2 qualitative characteristics, explain the role/purpose of a physical count.

Verifiability and faithful representation (if asked for 1, use verifiability)

The role of a physical count is to verify the accuracy of the inventory cards so that the inventory recorded in the balance sheet is free from bias (ie. Verifiable and a faithful representation) and in the process, detect any inventory loss or gain. This ensures that the information reported is a faithful representation of the real world economic event it represents, completely neutral (without bias) and free from error and that independent observers can reach a consensus that such information is faithfully represented.

- referring to an accounting assumption, explain the role/purpose of a physical count.

Accural basis

The physical count help determie if there has been an inventory loss/gain. This ensures that the information reported includes all revenue earned (inventory gain) which can be matched against all expenses incurred (inventory loss) regardless of whether cash has been received /paiiid in order to calculate an accurate net profit.

(alternative question wording: referring to _, explain the importance of identifying the inventory loss/gain for the period)

| Inventory loss                                                                                | Inventory gain                                                        |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Causes:<br>• Theft<br>• Undersupply by supplier<br>• Oversupply to customer<br> <br>• Damage* | Causes:<br>  -  Oversupply by supplier<br>  - Undersupply to customer |

How is it classified in the income statement?

Inventory loss is classified as an expense after the gross profit as it is an outflow of economic benefit in the form of a decrease in assets that decreases owner's equity that is not a drawings by the owner.