---
---
Budgeting- purpose (+ relevance + timeliness)

- **Assists planning** through predictions, providing info in time to prepare for possible problems and opportunities.
- **Aids decision making** by providing a standard to compare actual performance against, to identify areas with unsatisfactory performance so corrective action can be taken.

- Verifiability- However it is based on estimates or predictions rather than verifiable data

Purpose of variance reports

- **Assists planning** next budget to be more accurate. Variances investigated for more informed estimates.
- **Aids decision making** by highlighting variances that should be investigated and their causes, so corrective action can be taken.

How can the budgeting process be improved

If budget period length > 1 month

- prepare more frequent budgets:
    - More accurate and useful as benchmarks for comparison.
    - + allows EARLIER problem detection and corrective action, preventing small problems from turning large.

If budget period length < 1 month: 
- won't be asked this

Costs of preparing frequent budgets

- process is time-consuming and requires staff to prepare the reports increasing expenses and decreasing net profit.

How budgeted CFC and budgeted inc statement improve control

- CFC/inc statement
    - When reviewing predicted performance, management may see a need to reduce {cash outflows (cfc)}/{expense (inc statement)} and implement measures to prevent overspending.
    - Reasons for the variations in spending can be explored, providing the business with targets for the future

Variance reports -
Identify if variances are favourable or unfavourable and provide possible
reasons why. This will depend on the information contained in the variance
report. Look for relationships

- Relate to higher/lower profit(income statement)/cash(CFC) than expected
- Although might be bad, however [link to other items]


Modelling question (in exam, not sac)
Spreadsheets assist decision making by generating reports and information based on possible scenarios and courses of action