---
---
(from miss elliot’s class)

- **Analyse the choice of depreciation method and justify which method of depreciation would be most appropriate for vehicle/equipment/shop fittings/furniture etc. (Prac SAC 1)** The depreciation method chosen should depend on the revenue-earning pattern of the asset. For an asset such as a vehicle, it is assumed that it will contribute more to earning revenue at the start of its life when it is more efficient, and less as it ages. Therefore, the reducing balance method should be chosen, as this allows more depreciation expense to be allocated at the start of its life, and less as it ages. This would allow the revenues generated by the asset to be matched against the expenses incurred (the part of its value being consumed) so that profit can be accurately calculated. The depreciation method chosen should depend on the revenue-earning pattern of the asset. For an asset such as a shop fittings, it is assumed that it will contribute evenly to earning revenue over its useful life. Therefore, the straight line method should be chosen, as this allocates depreciation expense evenly over the asset's life. This would allow the revenues generated by the asset to be matched against the expenses incurred (the part of its value being consumed) so that profit can be accurately calculated.  **Referring to one Qualitative characteristic, explain why the owner should not change the depreciation method selected. (Prac SAC 1)** Comparability (1 mark) requires that the same depreciation method be used from one period to the next. Therefore, once a method is chosen it should be used for the life of the asset. (1 mark) Changing accounting methods will mean that the reports will not be able to be compared with similar information from another period or another date and it will be unclear whether changes over periods are the result of changes in financial performance or simply changes in accounting methods. (1 mark)  **Define the term: (Prac SAC 1 + notes)**
    - **Historical cost -** the original purchase price of the non-current asset
    - **Residual value -** the estimated value of the non-current asset at the end of its useful life
    - **Carrying value -** the value of a non-current asset that is yet to be incurred / allocated as an expense, plus any residual value
    - **Depreciation -** the allocation of the cost of a non-current asset over its useful life
    - **Cost of a NCA -** all costs incurred in order to bring the asset into a location and condition ready for use, which will provide a benefit for the life of the asset.
- **Explain the ethical implications of omitting the effects of depreciation from the Income Statement (Prac SAC 1)** The omission from the reports of the effects of depreciation is actually unethical as omitting depreciation expense would mean the reports would not include all Relevant information which might make a difference to decision-making and will not provide a faithful representation of the performance of the business.Specifically, an Income Statement which did not report depreciation expense would understate expenses and overstate profit. By inflating the profit, it would portray the business in a more favourable light in terms of its performance. This would be misleading to the users of the reports who make decisions based on the information provided. **Explain how a profit on the disposal of a NCA can occur (Notes)** A profit on the disposal of a NCA occurs when the proceeds on the disposal is greater than the carrying value. This occurs due to the overdepreciation of the asset, due to underestimating its useful life and/or it's residual value, therefore allocating too much depreciation over its useful life. (Look at the question, but this could be because the asset is in good condition or in high demand) **Explain how a loss on the disposal of a NCA can occur (Notes)** A loss on the disposal of a NCA occurs when the proceeds on the disposal is less than the carrying value. This occurs due to the underdepreciation of the asset, due to overestimation of its useful life and/or it's residual value, therefore allocating too little depreciation over its useful life. (Look at the question, but this could be because the asset was damaged, superseded by a newer model, no longer in demand) **Explain your treatment of 'cost' regarding a NCA. (Multiple examples)** The 'cost' is included in the cost of the NCA as it is a once-off cost incurred to bring the asset into a condition or location ready for use, that will provide benefit over the life of the asset. The 'cost' is not included as it is not a once-off cost/it is not a cost incurred to bring the asset into a condition or location ready for use/it will not provide benefit over the life of the asset/it is a yearly payment so it is a recurring cost.*If this is something like annual insurance or something like that, make sure you finish by saying that it would be treated as a current asset called prepaid insurance. **Referring to an accounting assumption, explain why the residual value is deducted from the cost of a NCA when calculating depreciation. (Prac SAC 4 or 5)** The residual value is deducted from the historical cost of the non-current asset as it represents the cost of the non-current asset that will not be consumed by the current business and which will not contribute to generating revenue. It must be deducted due to the entity assumption, as the residual value represents the amount that will not be consumed by the current entity, but by the next owner. Only that cost consumed by the business should be matched against the revenue earned by the business when determining profit so not as to overstate the expenses and understate the profit. **Discuss the conflict that exists between the qualitative characteristics of relevance and verifiability in terms of whether depreciation should be included in reports. (Prac SAC 5)**  The qualitative characteristic of relevance requires all information capable of making a difference to the decisions made by users to be included in accounting reports. Depreciation represents an expense incurred (consumption of future economic benefits) that is required to be reported in the Income Statement so that profit can be accurately calculated.Additionally, it is important to be included so that the accumulated depreciation figure in the Balance Sheet includes all depreciation for the asset over its life so far, and therefore the carrying value represents the future economic benefits the asset will bring the business, to allow decisions to be made about its replacement. However, the qualitative characteristic of verifiability requires that the information reported will be supported by source documents so that all users will reach the same conclusion. An event will be faithfully represented when it can be verified by source documents and checked through the audit process. Depreciation expense each year cannot be verified by source document evidence, as the process of calculating and reporting depreciation relies on estimating the residual value and useful life. Yet the inclusion of depreciation in reports is required as depreciation represents the expense incurred during the current reporting period and is deducted from Revenues earned under accrual accounting in order to determine an accurate profit figure for the current reporting period. Relevance always outweighs the characteristic of verifiability in order to prepare the most accurate information on balance day. **Bob’s accountant believes that the van should be depreciated using the Reducing balance method, whereas Bob believes that it doesn’t matter, as in the end of the van's useful life, the impact on profit is the same anyway. (Use revision activity to help you)b) Discuss this statement. (4 marks)**  Bob is correct that regardless of the method used the amount of depreciation expense allocated will be the same at the end of the asset’s life**.**However, the depreciation expense in each reporting period would be different resulting in different profit figures based on the depreciation method selected**.** If the method chosen does not reflect the revenue earning pattern of the asset being depreciated it will result in the expense allocated each period and the calculation of net profit in that period being inaccurate.The Van is an asset that is expected to be more productive in its earlier years and therefore generate more revenue in those periods, the reducing balance method should be adopted. The reducing balance method allocates more cost in the earlier years and less in the Van’s later years, when it is less productive and therefore matches the Van’s revenue earning pattern with the allocation of the expense. This would result in a lower profit at the start of the van's useful life, as depreciation expense would be higher, and higher net profit as the van ages as depreciation expense would be lower.