---
invis: "true"
---

**explain what is included in the cost of the noncurrent asset and why**
**explain what is meant by the ‘cost’ of a non-current asset**
‘cost’ refers to the original purchase price of the asset (excluding GST), plus any one-off costs incurred in order to get the non-current asset into a condition and location ready for use.

**explain your treatment of modification costs/painting of company logo, installation costs, delivery costs to get non-current asset to the business. (one-off costs)**
Installation costs are included when determining the cost of the non-crrent asset as it is a one-off cost incurred in getting the non-current asset into a condition/location ready for use and will provide benefit for the life of the asset.

**Explain your treatment of GST in determining the value of the non-current asset**
GST is not part of the cost of the asset, as it does not effect the economic benefit provided by the asset and will not contribute to generating revenue for the business. Instead, the GST Paid will reduce the GST liability owed to the ATO.

**Explain your treatment of the annual insurance/service contract/maintenance fee when determining the value of the non-current asset.**
The annual insurance is not included in the cost of the noncurrent asset as it is not a one-off cost incurred to get the asset into a condition and location ready for use and does not provide benefit for the life of the asset. It is treated as a current asset called Prepaid Insurance.

**Explain your treatment of the Annual registration when determining the value of a non-current asset.**
Whilst the annual registration is a necessary cost, it is not a one-off cost so its benefit will be consumed within a year. This means it is not part of the value of a non-current asset. Any costs where the benefit does not extend for the life of the asset are not included in the cost of the asset, but rather treated separately.

Indeed, as this amount is paid in advance, and expected to provide a benefit for only the next 12 months, it is in fact a current asset called Prepaid Registration.