---
invis: "true"
---

Explain the purpose of the statement of account (with qualitative characteristic)
How a Statement of Account can be used to ensure Verifiability and faithful representation?

FAITHFUL REP

To inform the customer of their recent transactions. It can also serve as a reminder of a balance that is owing. If  a business receives a statement of account from their accounts payabe, they vcan check the transacctions against their records and identify any discrepancies. The discrepancies will be checked against the source document and corrected or the Accounts payable needs to be contacted to be informed of the error and they need to correct their records. This ensures verifiability and faithful representation are upheld as the reports will be complete, accurate and free from bias

2nd version (newer)

Each transaction in the Statement of Account should be checked against the source document that was issued at the time, and then against what has been recorded in the Accounts Payable record to ensure that there are no discrepancies (1 mark). This allows any discrepancies to be followed up and rectified before payment is made (1 mark). This checking ensures that the financial reports provide a Faithful representation of the amount owing, helping to ensure an accurate figure for Accounts Payable overall (1 mark)

Shortened 2nd version

Transactions in the Statement of account should be checked against their respective source documents and the Accounts Payable record to identify any discrepancies, which can then be followed up and rectified before the payment is made. This checking ensures that the figure for accounts payable provided by the financial reports is a faithful representation of the amount owing.

Even more shortened version

Statement of account is checked against source documents and the Accounts Payable record to identify any discrepancies, which can be followed up and rectified before payment is made. This ensures that the value for accounts payable in the financial reports provides a faithful representation of the amount owing.

Y11T1 version (unit 3) (italic- parts that aren’t already in current optimised def)

A *statement of account is a document that summarises the transactions a firm has had with a particular account payable over a certain period of time (usually a month)*. This document can be used by the **business receiving** it as a cross-checking mechanism against the *relevant general ledger account of the supplier*, if there are any discrepancies these can be addressed by contacting the supplier of the document to check back through source documents to find the discrepancy. *This supports the Verifiability of the firm’s records, and thereby ensures that the reports are complete and accurate* and provide a faithful representation of the balance owed to each account payable.

Combined version with Y11T1 version

A *statement of account summarises the recent transactions between the firm and an account payable*. It is checked against source documents, *the general ledger account of the supplier*, and the Accounts Payable record to identify any discrepancies, which can be followed up and rectified before payment is made. *This supports the verifiability of the firm’s records, and ensures that the reports are complete and accurate and* provides a faithful representation of the amount owing.

Another question about statement of account asks how it assists in “internal control”