---
invis: "true"
---

• Explain why the business earned a net profit but suffered a cash deficit for the period
• Explain why the business suffered a loss but had a cash surplus for the period
• Explain why the business' profit was greater than the cash surplus for the period (or vice versa)
• Explain why the cash deficit was greater than the net loss for the period (or vice versa)
• Explain why the net cash flows from operations was greater than the net profit


📖 Cash vs profit

- The difference between cash and profit
    - The structured answers (from class)
    - Net profit but a cash deficit and examples why
    - Net loss but a cash surplus and examples why

Cash
and profit are **different measures of performance.**

Definitions- DON'T NEED THESE IN CASH VS PROFIT QUESTIONS(CHECK WITH TEACHER)

A profit for a period is accurately calculated by deducting the
expenses incurred from the revenues earned,

whereas cash position for a period is accurately calculated by
deducting cash outflows from cash inflows
- define net cash flows (might need to be specifically from operating activities)

- which is not affected by accrual concepts

Surplus but net loss

- A surplus occurs when there are more cash inflows than cash outflows. A net loss occurs when expenses incurred are greater than revenues earned
- **-> Receipts from accounts receivable is greater than credit
fees**
- -> Other stuff
- Which leads to an increase in cash but no/less increase in profit

Deficit but net profit

- A deficit occurs when there are more cash outflows than cash inflows. A net profit is earned when revenues earned are greater than expenses incurred.
- **-> Purchase of materials/supplies and payments to accounts
payable is greater than cost of materials/supplies used**
- -> Other stuff
- Which leads to an increase in profit but no/less/- increase in cash
- (as it is a non-cash item)

[more info here (unit 1 2 notes)](../../Unit%201%202%20notes/2.%20Y10T1/6.%20Cash%20vs%20profit)
## Teacher's notes
**Cash vs profit questions**

Examples of questions:

- Explain why the business earned a net profit but suffered a cash deficit for the period
- Explain why the business suffered a loss but had a cash surplus for the period
- Explain why the business' profit was greater than the cash surplus for the period (or vice versa)
- Explain why the cash deficit was greater than the net loss for the period (or vice versa)
- Explain why the net cash flows from operations was greater than the net profit
- Etc.

**Structure**

| **Opening sentence**                                             | Cash and profit are different measures of performance.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Explain Term 1 and Term 2 (showing the difference)**           | A net profit occurs when revenues earned are greater than expenses incurred for a period, whereas a cash deficit occurs when cash outflows are greater than cash inflows for a period.                                                          |
| **Give relevant examples (using information from the question)** | This occurred due to credit sales being greater than receipts from accounts receivable, which resulted in profit increasing by greater than the increase in cash.  <br>*Make sure that your examples a relevant to what the question is asking* |


## Example questions
**The business suffered a loss but had a cash surplus
for the period. Using two examples, explain how this could occur.**

Cash and profit are
different resources.

Net cash flow is
accurately calculated by deducting the cash outflows from the cash inflows fr
the period. Net profit is accurately calculated by deducting the expenses
incurred from the revenues earned for the period.

Cash surplus ius
caused by having greater cash inflow than cash outflow, while net loss is
caused by having greater expenses incurred than revenues earned.

The business
suffered a net loss despite generating a cash surplus for the period because
they had greater receipts from accounts receivable than credit fees, resulting
in an increase in cash while decreasing profit.

Another reason is
because they

received significant
amount of GST received + GST refund

Sold a non current asset

Capital contribution
by owner

Got money from loan

**The business suffered a profit biut a cash deficit for
the period. Using two examples, explain how this could occur.**

Cash and profit are
different resources.

Cash position for a
period is accurately calcuklateed by deducting cash outflows from cash inflows.
Net profit is accurately calculated by deducting the expenses incurred from the
revenues earned.

A profit is caused
by having greater revenues earned than expenses incurred, whilst a cash deficit
is caused by a greater cash outflow than cash innflows.

The business
suffered a cash deficit despite generating anet profit because possibly:

Using less materials
than purchased + payments to accounts payable

Purchase of a non
curent asset

Gst settlement to
ATO, GST paid to suppliers

Drawings by the
owner

LOAN REPAYMENT

Provide one reason why the busienss generated a net profit yet suffered a cash deficit.

Cash and profit are differnt measures of performance.

Net profit is accurately calculated by deducting expenses incurred from revenue earned,

whereas the cash deficit is calculated by deducting cash outflows from cash inflows.

Reasons:
This is due to Credit sales $200 000 being greater in Receipts from Accounts receivable $16000 increasing profit more than cash.

Drawings of cash $3700 is a cash outflow and decreases cash but is not an expense and has no effect on net profit.