---
---
*chapter 16*
**What is depreciation**
Depreciation is the allocation of the cost of the non-current asset over its useful life.
-classified as expense and included under “other expenses”

**What is depreciation expense**

The part of the non-current asset that has been consumed in the current reporting period.

**Accumulated depreciation**

Is the value of the non-current asset that is yet to be consumed/allocated as expense, plus residual value. It is calculated by deducting the Accumulated depreciation from Historical cost of the non-current asset.

**Explain what is meant by the ‘cost’ of a non current asset**

‘Cost’ refers to the original purchase price of the asset (excluding GST), plus any one-off costs incurred in order to get the non-current asset into a condition/location ready for use.

**Explain your treatment of modification costs/painting of company logo, installation costs, delivery costs to get non-current asset to the business. One off costs**

[Installation costs] are included when determining the cost of the non-current asset as it is a one-off cost incurred in getting the non-current asset into a condition and location ready for use and will provide benefit for the life of the asset.

**Explain the straight line method of depreciation**

The straight line method of depreciation assumes that the non-current asset being depreciated contributes evenly to revenue over its useful life, as a result, it allocates the same depreciation expense every year.

**Referring to an accounting assumption, explain the purpose of depreciating a non-current asset.**

Accural basis

Because a non-current asset is not entirely consumed within one reporting period, depreciation attempts to calculate how much of the non-current asset has been consumed in the current reporting period so it can be matched against the revenue it assisted in earning to determine an accurate net profit.

**Explain how depreciation can undermine the Verifiability of Accounting reports.**

Because the residual value and useful life are estimates and can therefore not be verified by reference to a source document, using them in the calculation of depreciation means that the reports will not be free from bias, and to some extent this will undermine the faithful representation of the reports.