---
---
*chapter 16*
UNIT 2 OUTCOME 3 NCA CHECKLIST

**· Explain what is meant by the ‘cost of the non-current asset**

‘cost’ refers to the original purchase price of the asset (excluding GST), plus any one-off costs incurred in order to get the non-current asset into a location and condition ready for use.

**· Definition of a non-current asset**

**· Explain how the following items effect the valuation of a non-current asset**

- **Installation costs, Delivery, Logo**
    - ___ costs are included when determining the cost of the noncurrent asset as it is a one-off cost incurred in getting the non-current asset into a condition and location ready for use and will provide benefit for the life of the asset.
- **GST paid**
    - Gst is not part of the cost of the asset, as it does not affect the economic benefit for the life of the asset. It is treated as a current asset called Prepaid insurance.
- **Annual insurance / service contract / maintenance fee**
    - The annual insurance is not included in the cost of the non current asset as it is not a one-off cost incurred to get the asset into a condition and location ready for use and does not provide benefit for the life of the asset. It is treated as a current asset called Prepaid insurance.

**· Define fair value**

- the value of an asset contributed by the owner that would be received if the asset was sold at the time it was acquired by the business.

**· Referring to a Qualitative characteristic explain why fair value is used**

- The fair value is the value of an asset contributed by the owner that would be received if the asset was sold at the time it was acquired by the business. This figure is used as it will provide more useful information in terms of decision-making because the fair value represents the value that will provide a furture economic benefit to the firm, and which will contribute to generating revenue.
- If 4 marks, also write:
- Using fair value also fulfils faithful representation as this value faithfully represents the real-world economic event it represents and best reflects the economic benefit that the asset will provide to the business and which will assist the business to earn revenue. This ensures that the information that the users rely on to make decisions provides a truthful account of that has occurred, to avoid overstating the value of assets and owner’s equity in the Balance Sheet.

**· Referring to an accounting assumption explain the purpose of depreciation**

- Accural basis
- Because a Non-current asset is not entirely consumed within one reporting period, depreciation attempts to calculate how much of the asset’s value has been consumed in the current reporting period so that it can be matched against the revenue it assisted in earning to determine an accurate net profit

**· Define:**

- **carrying value**
    - Carrying value is the value of the non current asset that has yet to be consumed/allocated as expense, plys residual value. It is calculated by deducting Accumulated depreciation from historical cost of the noncurrent asset
- **accumulated depreciation**
    - The value of the non-current asset that has been consumed so far,. It is classified as a negative non-current asset and is deducted from the historical cost of the noncurrent asset in the balance sheet.
- **depreciation**
    - The allocation of the cost of the noncurrent asset over its useful life. It spreads the depreciable value of the noncurrent asset over the years in which the saset will assist the busienss to generate revenue. It is classified as an expense and included under ‘other expenses’ in the income statement.
- **useful life**
    - the estimated period of time for which the noncurrent asset will be used to earn revenue.
- **residual value**
    - the estimated value of the noncurrent asset at the end of its useful life

**Explain the impact of depreciation of the reports of the business:**

- **Balance Sheet (accounting equation)**
- **Income Statement**
- **Cash Flow Statement**
    - Depreciation is not included in the cash flow statement as it does not involve any movement of cash. Depreciation is the [definition]

**· Explain the impact on the accounting equation of not recording the depreciation**

- overstated understated thing

**· Distinguish between the Straight-line method and Reducing Balance method of depreciation**

- 

**· What is the basis on which the depreciation method is selected**

**· Justify the use of each method for the following assets:**

- **Photocopier**
- **Display cabinets**

**· Explain the impact of using each method at the end of the asset’s useful life**

- [don’t memorise]
- Because the calculations of 3depreciation of both methods will end at the residual value [definition of residual value], there will be no change on the valuation at the end of the asset’s useful life

**Memorise:**

The depreciation method chosen should be based on its revenue earning pattern.

If the asset is expected to contribute evenly to generating revenue the Straight line method should be used.

The straight line method assumes that the non-current asset being depreciated will contribute evenly to revenue, doing the same job when it is old and when it is new. This method allocates the same amount of depreciation expense in each reporting period and is calculated as a  percentage of the historical cost of the asset. Typically, this would includeassets such as Office furniture and fixtures and fittings.

If the asset is expected to contribute more to generating revenue at the start of its useful life and less as it ages the reducing balance method should be used.

The reducing balance method assumes that the assset wil l contribute more to eatning revenue at the start of its life and less as the asset ages, thus, a higher expense is matched against revenue at the beginning of the asset’’s life than at the end. This method is best suited to assets that are more efficient and productive when they are new, and therefore contribute more to earning revenue at the start of their useful life than at its end. This method calculates depreciation expenser as a percentage of carrying value and is more appropriate for assets such as equipment, vehicle, photocopier etc.

Basically:

The depreciation method chosen should be based on the asset’s revenue earning pattern.