---
---
*Refer to ‘Measurement in VCE Biology’ handout for explanation of terms (including accuracy) and Edrolo textbook*

The accuracy of a measurement relates to how close it is to the true value of the quantity being measured.
A measurement result is considered to be accurate if it is judged to be close to the ‘true’, value of the quantity being measured
(true value: the value/range of values that would be found if the quantity could be measured perfectly)

If a quantity could be measured perfectly, then we would find its true value. 

The closeness of a measured value to the true value.
Also how close a measured value is to a standard value or a widely accepted value.
- If the accepted value for the heat of combustion was not known, comments on accuracy would not be valid.

This experiment is accurate, as data was generated using correct
experimental procedure.
To fully determine the accuracy of this experiment, the results would
need to be compared to investigations done previously, or compared
with the known optimal temperature of the lamb liver catalase at
approximately 40°C. There is also not a definitive ‘true’ value for the
height of oxygen bubbles for each temperature in this experiment –
this is evident from the variations in recordings of the three trials at
each temperature

- Given an accepted value for the boiling temperature of water is 100°C. If Student A experimentally determines the boiling temperature to be 97°C and Student B determines the value to be 99°C, then Student B’s results are said to be more accurate than Student A’s results.
- If the accepted value for the boiling temperature of water was not known, comments on accuracy would not be possible.
- The difference between a measured value and the true value is known as the ‘measurement **error’**.

- Accuracy is not a quantity and therefore cannot be given a numerical value. It is allowable for a measurement to be described as being ‘**more accurate**’ when its method and/or instruments clearly **reduce measurement error**.
    - For example, using a triggered electronic time system compared to a hand operated stopwatch.
- To obtain more accurate results, experimenters must minimise **systematic** errors.
