---
---
the extent to which all variables in the experiment have been controlled, so that the
independent variable is the only factor that change

study design: a measurement is said to be valid if it measures what it is supposed to be measuring. An experiment is said to be valid if it investigates what it sets out and/or claims to investigate.

- Data is considered valid if the dependent variable is only affected by the independent variable (eg: all other factors/variables are tightly controlled and do not influence the results)

- A measurement is ‘valid’ is it measures what is claims to be measuring.
- Both experimental design and the implementation should be considered when evaluating validity.
- Data are said to be **valid** if:
    - The measurements that have been made are affected by a **single independent variable** only.
    - All other variables are **controlled** throughout the investigation (i.e. **controlled variables**).
    - **Experiments** and their **results** are **repeatable** by other scientists.
    - presence of a control group
    
    To improve validity:
    
    - Incorporate more controlled variables.
    - Set up a control group.
    - Randomly select the sample to reduce selection bias.
    
    ○This ensures your sample reflects the wider population you wish to generalise your results to.

**Importance of randomly placing participants into groups**
- decreases bias by minimising the effect of different opinions  
- increases validity by ensuring the only difference between groups is IV  
- increases repeatability by ensuring groups are likely to be representative of the population