---
---
*Identification of the independent, dependent and three controlled variables.*   

> ...
> 

Rubric

The independent, dependent and controlled variables are clearly stated.

Clear IV, DV and three controlled variables with specific values and units (if appropriate)

All IV, DV and three controlled variables are shown with specific values and units.

Required- marks obtained in logbook

- list five controlled variables for every epi

- include specifics

| Independent                                                | **Dependent**                   | **Controlled**                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Angle of decline of the ramp (7°, 14°, 21°, 28°, 35°, 40°) | Acceleration of the cart (m/s²) | Same objects used, specifically the ramp and cart<br>Position/location of materials<br>Rotation of ramp (yaw and roll)<br><br>Angle of sensor<br><br>Don’t use temperature if already used for iv, don’t even use “surrounding temperature” |


Variables

- independent
    - what are you going to test and change?
    - the factor that is manipulated in an experiment
    - There should only be one (single) independent variable. Ensure Units are stated correctly.
    - If more than one variable is tested even by accident than the experiment will not be considered **valid**
    - The variable that is **changed** - what the experimenter is testing.
    - **Controlled** by the researcher.
    - Only **one** IV.
    - Plotted on the **x-axis** of the graph.
    - eg Light intensity (0%, 10%, 25%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
- dependent- what are you going to measure and observe?
    - what is measured when the independent variable changes. Ensure Units are stated correctly.
    - the factor measured in the experiment that changes when the IV is manipulated
    - needs to be what is measured rather than what is inferring
    eg height of plant rather than rate of photosyntheis
    - not “rate of photosynthesis” but rather “time taken for leaf discs to float” because this is the thing you are measuring
    - The variable that is **measured** or **observed** when the IV changes.
    - Must state **how** it is to be measured.
    - Plotted on the **y-axis** of the graph.
    - eg Rate of growth of the plant (as measured by height (cm) of the plant over time)
- Control-
    - is variable which is constant and unchanged throughout the course of the investigation.
    - what needs to be kept the same?
    - factor that is kept constant throughout the experiment. Also known as a constant variable
    - All other factors (that might affect the DV) must be kept the same in the experiment
    - Any factors that are kept **constant** throughout the experiment.
    - Starts with ‘**same**’.
    - Ensures that any change in the DV must be caused by a change in the IV only.
    - the temperature between 19-21, surrounding temperature (if in water bath) and light position in room those aren't really relevant and won't have much of an impact. rather use like the type of spinach leaves, concentration etc
    - Same amount of water, soil, fertilizer used
    - Same species of plant used

**Negative control**
A negative control group is a trial where the Independent Variable is not applied, acts as a basis for comparison to determine the effects of the IV, not expected to produce a result  
**Positive control**
A positive control is a group or sample in an experiment that is exposed to a treatment known to produce a positive result.  
shows experiment can detect an effect when it is present

Control group

- A trial where the independent variable is not applied or does not receive the experimental treatment. Used for a comparison of results to determine the effect of the IV.
- acts as baseline to compare iv to and shows that the independent variable is the one causing the effect
- negative control- a control group that is not expected to produce a result
- positive control- a contrrol group thaat receives a treatmentnt wirh a known response that can be compared to the experimental group(s).
- Provides **experimental control**.
- The group which provides **known results**.
- Acts as a **standard of comparison** for the experiment.
- Is a way to eliminate the possibility of **random** factors that affect results.
- Involves setting up a second group within the experiment that is identical in every way to the experimental group except for the **single experimental variable** being tested.
    - Examples: The group given the placebo, the group not treated with the drug, in absence of…etc.
- Must use **large sample size** for any group (e.g. 100 participants)

***Controlled experiment*:** An experimental investigation of the relationship between an independent variable and a dependent variable, controlling all other variables.

- don’t say “amount”, say volume

1. units
2. range (eg 30-35 degrees)
3. context (yeast with glucose, or type of glucose etc)

**uncontrolled variable (extraneous variable)**

a factor that is not kept constant or accounted for throughout the Experiment.

**Confounding variable** may influence the effect of the IV and will affect the DV