---
---
*A set of statements that summarise the main results and findings from the experiment, along*
*with links to the overall aim and hypothesis.*

Rubric

Includes a summary of the main results with links made to the aim and hypothesis.

Includes a summary of the main results with links made to the aim and hypothesis

relates to the experimental aim and hypothesis

includes statement of key findings and experimental context

includes the impact of uncertainty on findings, possible improvements and recommendations for further work

An excellent, reflective and summative conclusion is written with confidence in the findings and further work

Bio (1 mark)
conclusion and generalisation stated with  response to hypothesis.

Supportive evidence provided

Identify if results support/partly support/refute the hypothesis (shorter compared to the discussion version)

- The conclusion links your evidence from the experiment to your hypothesis and the context of the investigation.
- The conclusion should state the main investigation result and whether the hypothesis was supported or not (NOT proven/correct or disproven/incorrect).
- This should be justified using specific details selected from the investigation findings. The significance of the results should be discussed in terms of how they link to relevant biological concepts and current scientific understanding.
- In drawing conclusions, they should briefly examine patterns, trends and relationships between variables with the limitations of the data in mind.
- Conclusions drawn from data must be limited by, and not go beyond, the data available.

- A **summary** of what you can **deduce** from the **results** of the investigation, including whether the tested hypothesis was **supported.**
- Use your observations to **answer the aim**.
- **Describe** overall **trends**.
- No reference to specific data (unless the aim requires it).
- Should not introduce any information that has not already been discussed in the results and discussion section.

the EP framework for a conclusion

Y9 example (fulfils y9 rubric)

The aim of the investigation was to determine the relationship between the angle of decline and the acceleration of a cart down a ramp. This was done by measuring the acceleration of the cart down a Pasco ramp with different angles of decline. The graph shows a nearly linear relationship between the angle of decline and the acceleration. As shown in the graph, it can be said that increasing the steepness of the ramp resulted in a greater cart acceleration, supporting the hypothesis. For example, as the angle of elevation of the ramp was increased from 7° to 40°, the acceleration increased from approximately 1.02m/s2 to an average of 6.15m/s2. Therefore, the experimental results show that in order to safely stop the roller coaster, the ramps must be less steep than approximately 35° to ensure an acceleration of below 5.50m/s2.

It was found that increasing the … would

Conclusion
a summary of what you can deduce from the results of the investigation, including whether the tested hypothesis was supported

<aside>
📖 In conclusion, the results indicate that the optimal temperature of the catalase enzyme in
lamb liver is 40°C as shown by the highest mean height of oxygen bubbles produced,
18.7 mm. This is compared to the predicted optimal temperature of 37°C, which produced an oxygen bubble height of only 16.5 mm. As such, the results do not support the hypothesis.monk
However, whether this was completely true should be further explored by conducting the
investigation at smaller increments of temperature, to find the exact optimal temperature.

</aside>