---
---
*A prediction of what will be observed throughout the experiment (~~written as an ‘if’ and ‘then’ statement~~).*   

- Is a **prediction** of the **outcomes**, which are testable experimentally and form the basis of the methodology. It does not have to be correct, but should be supported by **knowledge** of the theory.
- A **possible explanation** to a research question that can be used to make predictions.
- Describes the **effect** that changing the **independent variable** will have on the **dependent variable** and **why**.
- Often starts with **‘that’**.

**Rubric**

The hypothesis is clearly stated and is justified based on prior research or current understanding of scientific ideas (justification in poster) (y10 rubric)

hypothesis is justified with scientific reasoning or research and uses correct scientific phrasing.

Hypothesis is correctly phrased with all variables and scientific justification

Required- marks obtained in logbook

- A prediction or educated guess of the outcome. State what you think will occur in comparison to the control.
- Can use an “If, Then” statement or “that …………………….. “
- don’t need “because”
- Units of measurement do not need to be included. A hypothesis is a general statement that may include an overall trend prediction.


It is hypothesized that [iv1] will [direction of effect on Dv] compared to [Iv2]. 
- ***If** the solute concentration surrounding a potato sample increases, **then** they will lose mass due to osmosis.*
- That as the amount of light available to the devil’s ivy plant increases, so too will the rate of growth, as reflected by an increased height of the plant. Increased light is known to increase the rate of photosynthesis, and therefore cause faster growth due to more available glucose.

➡️It is hypothesized that if the ramp has a 40 degree angle, it will have a faster acceleration compared to if it has a seven degree angle.
Ms Matheson: i know the prompt says to use a "if...then..." statement, but we disucssed in class why this was not the best way to write a hypothesis


- good to refer to exact values eg 40 degree angle