---
---
*Where any notes/values/observations collected throughout the experiment are recorded. This could be in the form of a written description, table, drawing or photo. Appropriate headings, titles and units need to be included if using a table.*

*Representation of your numerical data using the most appropriate graph type. This needs to be of an appropriate size and scaling and include a title, axis titles and units, accuracy with plotted points and a key/legend (if applicable).*     

Rubric

- included experimental observations
- either tables, diagrams or graphs are evident with

The results are: Clearly recorded in the correct format (e.g table); Organised so that trends can easily be identified; Appropriately labelled

The results are clearly recorded in the correct format (e.g.table). It is organised so that trends can easily be identified. Table is appropriately labelled.

The graph is: Of the correct type; Has an informative title; Has axis titles; Has axis units; Has an appropriate scale; Is correctly plotted; Is of appropriate size; Has a key/legend (if applicable)

Is of the correct type, Has an informative title, Has axis titles, Has axis units labelled, Has an appropriate scale, Is correctly plotted, Is of appropriate size, Has a key/legend (if applicable)

Accurate graph and/ or table with correct labels, units, titles, scales.

Bio

Accurate presentation of graphs {and/or tables} with correct labels, units, titles, scales.

- Record all **raw data**.
- Organise the data in a clear manner.
    - Ensure tables and graphs have descriptive headings, and all columns and rows are labeled with units.
- Consider the most appropriate type of graph to present the data.
    - Graphs should be meaningfully used. The graph type should emphasise trends that may not be obvious in raw data.
- All data should be recorded- no data should be omitted.

- excel is good
- ensure the title, scaling, label and axis are appropriate for all graphs
- ruler
- Include a **precise title** that links the IV to the DV. Title goes **below** the graph
- Both axes are labelled and, if relevant, have a **unit of measurement**.
- The intervals on the axes are **even**.
- Points are accurately plotted.
- The graph maximises the space available.
- The graph is clear and neat and makes the data **easier to analyse**.

Outliers

- Are data points that **do not fit** a pattern or trend.
- Should **not** be ignored or assumed to be personal errors (mistakes).
- All data, including outliers, **should be included** in order that the analysis of data is undertaken in and ethical and systematic way.
- It is good scientific practice to **take repeated readings** so that greater confidence in the validity of data is achieved.