---
invis: "true"
---

- **Define inventory card**

A subsidary accounting record that records each individual transaction involving the movement in and out of the business of a particular line of inventory

- **Benefits of inventory card/perpetual inventory system of recordin- (memorise the first one, first sentence of the second**
- it assists in the re-ordering of inventory. The inventory cards will show when the minimum inventory levels have been reached so an order can be placed within the supplier to ensure customer demand can be met to avoid loss of sales.
- Fast-moving & slow moving lines of inventory can be identified. The owner can examine the inventory cards to identify the items that are selling well and those that are not and adjust inventory purchases accordingly. Fast moving items can be re-ordered whilst slow moving lines can be reduced or discontinued.
- Inventory loss and gains can be detected by comparing the balances of the inventory cards against the physical count. This allows for strategies to be implemented to reduce losses such as increase security measures to reduce theft and careful of checking of invoices and delivery dockets against the delivery to avoid under or over supply issues.

**2 details that are provided when transactiojns are recorded in the inventory card but not in journals or reports**

- Quantity or number of items of inventory
- The cost proice of each indivisual inventory item

Discuss the two methods of cost allocation and justify the use of the most appropriate method for this business.

**Should the business use identified cost or fifo or**

**Why is the business using identified cost/fifo or**

**Explain why businesses adopt the FIFO method of inventory recording**

Fifo:

- If the items are not measureable:
- The first in first out method of cost allocation is based on the assumption that the first inventory purchased will be first sold. This method is used by _ because it is impossblr, impractical, and not worth the time, effort and cost to individually label each item of inventory ([name of item]).
- If the items are measureable:

The first in first out method of cost allocation is based on the assumption that the first inventory purchased will be first sold. This methos is mainly used by the busiunesses that sell inventory where it is impossblr, impractical, and not worth the time, effort and cost to indicidually label each item of inventory and because it is an easier cost assignment method.

Identified cost:

- A method of valuing inventory by physically marking each item in some way so that its individual cost price can be identified.

The identified cost method on the other hand, involves the physical marking or labelling each item of inventory in some way, such as a code, at the time of purchase, and then reporting a record of the cost price that relates to that code on the item to the cost price in its records to identify the exact cost price of each individual item of inventory and used this identified cost when recording.

**Explain the effect on the income statement for the month ended _ if _ used the first in, first our cost assignment method for the inventory instead of the identified cost assignent methos /other way round**

Rising cost prices

Because fifo assumes that the first items purchased are the first sold, in times of risng cost prices it will assume that the older, cheaper items have been sold first. This means that under FIFO, Cost of sales will be lower and therefore net profit and owner's equity will be higher than identified cost. Using identified cost means the specific cost prices are recognised, and a higher cost of sales will likely be reported as it ould be calculated using a combination of cheaper and more recent cost prices resulting in a lower net profit and owner's equity.

Falling cost prices

Because FIFO assumes that the first items purchased are the first items sold, in times of falling cost prices it will assume that the older, more expensive items are sold first. This means that under FIFO, Cost of sales ill be higher and therefore net profit and owner's equity will be lower than identified cost. Using identified cost means the specific cost prices are recognised, and a lower cost of sales will likely be reported as it ould be calculated using a combination of older and newer cost prices resulting in a higher net profit and owner's equity.

**Explain the effect on inventory on hand for the month ended _ if _ used the first in, first our cost assignment method for the inventory instead of the identified cost assignent methos /other way round**

Rising cost prices

In times of rising prices fifo will assume that the newer, more expensive items of inventory remain on hand, leading to a higher valuation of inventory on hand than identified cost. When using identified cost, the valuation of inventory on hand will be lower because the remaining inventory could be a combination of cheaper and expensive inventory.

Falling cost prices

In times of falling prices FIFO will assume that the newer, cheaper items of inventory remain on hand, leading to a lower valuation of Inventory on hand than Identified Cost. When using Identified Cost, the valuation of Inventory on hand will be higher because the remaining inventory could be a combination of cheaper and expensive inventory.

Identified cost

A method of valuing inventory by physically marking each item in some way so that its individual cost price can be identified.

FIFO

A method of valuing inventory that assummes that the first items purchased are the first items sold, therefore balues inventory sold using the earliest cost price on hand.

FIFO (first in first out)

| Opening balance | Given |
| --- | --- |
| Purchase of inventory | Bottom/supplier price given |
| Return of inventory | Supplier's price given |
| Sales (cost of sales) | First price |
| Sales returns (cost of sales) | Last cost out |
| Drawings/advertising | First price |
| Inventory Loss | First price |
| Inventory Gain | Last price from in column |

for sales returns, it is always last cost out

- even if the last cost out was not a sale
- even if the question stated the date/transaction the initial sale was

For sales returns with multiple cost prices (in fifo) you write them in the same order as on the right (so opposite of last cost out order)

- like eg you had

| BALANCE |  |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 500 |
| 5 | 550 |

then a sale return of 3 items would be:

| IN |  |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 500 |
| 2 | 550 |

(the 500 goes first despite the last cost out rule)

**Inventory write downs**

| Date | Details | Qty | Cost | Total | Qty | Cost | Total | Qty | Cost | Total |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Aug 1 | Balance |  |  |  |  |  |  | 6 | 500 | 3000 |
| 31 | Memo 31 |  |  |  | 3 | 70 | 210 | 3 | 500 | 1500 |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 3 | 430 | 1290 |

Inventory card

|                                                         |                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Inventory item:<br>Inventory code:<br>Inventory method: | Location:<br> Supplier: |

|  |  | IN | OUT | BALANCE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Date | Details | Qty | Cost | Total | Qty | Cost | Total | Qty | Cost | Total |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

