---
---
E.g

**For one of the experiments conducted, identify a limitation and how this limitation could be overcome. Clearly state which experiment you are referring to.**

**Effect of light intensity**: 
<mark>No control (1mark). Complete a trial in the dark to show light caused the change (1mark)</mark>

Leaf discs stacked on top of each other, meaning some may not have same access to light (1mark), uses a larger beaker to discs can spread out (1mark).

More than one light source present (1mark), complete trials in darkness with only lamp on (1mark)

**Light or CO2 on photosynthesis** –
Concentration of chloroplasts/chlorophyll/veins in leaf discs (1) repeat to minimise the effect of outliers/collect discs from same region of leaf (no veins) (1).

<mark>Small sample size increases the effect of random errors on data (1) increase sample size to minimise effect of random errors/outliers.</mark>

**Temperature on yeast** – 
Heat loss may occur (1) insulate the beakers (1)
Parallax error when reading start/end volume (1) read at eye level (1).
<mark>Heat lost to environment from water baths (1) use a thermometer to monitor water baths and keep at correct temp (1)</mark>

**light intensity**
No control (1mark).
Complete a trial in the dark to show light caused the change (1mark)

**co2 concentration**
Small sample size increases the effect of random errors on data (1)
increase sample size to minimise effect of random errors/outliers.

**temperature on yeast**
Heat lost to environment from **water baths** (1) 
use a thermometer to monitor water baths and keep at correct temp (1)
insulate beakers


*Other reasonable answers*

*(1 mark identifying limitation, 1 mark providing solution – has to link to the limitation, not*

*just ‘repeat’). No mark given for just saying limitation was the number of trials and should*

*do more trials.*

Did not accept temperature of room for Experiment 1 or 2.

Cohort Av. 1.3/2

2 marks

---

To add to that, I would think that limitations may also be generally any disadvantages with an experimental design. This could include a experimental method that does not appropriately address the goal/research problem.

> "*I believe that limitations of an experiment would simply refer to factors which cannot be controlled by the experimental setup but would still affect the results*"
> 

You've gotta be careful with this definition. It's the right idea, but a limitation isn't something that "can't be controlled"...the whole purpose of discussing them is to try to get rid of them, which is usually possible.

To understand limitations, you need to understand what an experiment is for. An experiment is to show that A causes B. That's all it does. Really good experiments demonstrate that connection in such a way as to eliminate any doubt that A caused B. Bad ones leave open a lot of questions. A limitation is anything that makes us doubt that A caused B, so yes, it can be variable that wasn't properly controlled. It can also be something inherent in the design of the experiment, too.

*Excerpt from https://archive.atarnotes.com/forum/index.php?topic=151609.11520*