---
---
**Balance day adjustments: Bad and doubtful debts**

> “Bad debts and allowance for doubtful debts is always in the exam and it’s the easiest question.” Miss P, 5/6/25
> 

> New Checklist:
Record in the **General Journal** each step when **part of the debt is received, and the remainder is written off as a bad debt** as well as the **subsequent recording of the BDA** relating to the bad debt and allowance for doubtful debt at the end of the period

Source documents used to verify different types of transactions (applicable to the transaction)
> 

Not all debts will turn bad in the period in which the credit sale is made.

→ According to accrual basis these credit sales, if will turn bad must be recorded as bad in the period it occurred (so that the reports show a more accurate picture of what the business will actually receive)

→ However it is impossible to know what **percentage of these net credit sales** will turn bad so a prediction is made based on data from previous years

This means a new account must be made- **Allowance for Doubtful Debts** (no, there are no abbreviations for this)

- similar to an *accrued expense*- where you preassign this predicted amount as Bad debts at the end of a period then when the bad debt actually happen you deduct from this account instead.
- It is a negative current asset.

The first time you do this, you must create the account:

| Bad debts | predicted value |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|       Allowance for Doubtful Debts |  | predicted value |
| Creation of Allowance for Doubtful Debts - _% of net credit sales (memo _) |  |  |

And when a bad debt actually happens, you deduct from the Allowance for Doubtful Debts instead of incurring bad debts (the bad debt was pre-incurred in the period the credit sale was made) (a write off)

| Allowance for Doubtful Debts | predicted value |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| GST Clearing |  |  |
|       Accounts Receivable - bobs burgers |  | predicted value |
| Debt written off as uncollectable (or irrecoverable) due to ___ (memo 43) |  |  |
|  |  |  |

As shown the Allowance for Doubtful Debts (the prediction amount) decreases as a bad debt has now been incurred so there is a less remaining predicted amount for the period.

GST payable decreases as you (and the ATO) are no longer going to receive the GST. Note that the GST was not part of the allowance for doubtful debts.

At the end of each period, instead of resetting the account, you simply assign **however much more bad debts is required to create a preassigned amount (balance) matching this period’s prediction**. In other words:

If the previous period’s BDA was overstated (the current period’s write off was lower than starting balance), the current period’s adjustment should be understated by that amount to compensate.

Despite meaning each period would be over or understated, in the long term the amount of doubtful debts turned bad will be more accurate.

- Do this transaction instead of creation of allowance for Doubtful debts transaction, because you already created the account. The balance will go to the next period

| Bad debts | x |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|       Allowance for Doubtful Debts |  | x |
| Adjusting entry- allowance for doubtful debts - _% of net credit sales (Memo _) |  |  |

In doing this you are marking this prediction (% of this period’s net credit sales) as bad at the end of the period fulfilling accrual basis

## Complications

Sometimes (but guaranteed in the sac) the business may be able to still pay you some of the money they owe you (usually in the form of _ cents per dollar). In that case the amount they paid is treated as a normal receipt from accounts receivable and does not deduct allowance for Doubtful debts. This could be combined with the debt write off transaction or included as a separate transaction in the journal.

| Bank | amount paid |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|       Accounts payable- bobs burgers |  | amount paid |

Calculating the Adjusting Entry

Sometimes you may be asked to record the balance day adjustment to assign allowance for doubtful debts for the next period. A way to do this is by reconstructing the Allowance for Doubtful debts ledger. You then calculate all the other values in the ledger then use that to find the value (highlighted red) )

Given the Pre adjusted trial balance

## Ledger

| Date | Cross-reference | Amount $ | Date | Cross-reference | Amount $ |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Oct 16 | Accounts Receivable | 1500 | Oct 1 | Balance | 2340 |
| Oct 31 | Balance | 2460 | Oct 31 | Bad Debts | 1620 |
|  |  | 3960 |  |  | 3960 |
|  |  |  | Nov 1 | Balance | 2460 |

Oct 1 The predicted amount period (calculated from previous period) % of net credit sales of previous period

- the total allowed bad debts from **all** previous periods that hasn’t turned bad yet?

Oct 16 When a bad debt has actually occurred

Oct 31 (right) Marking the predicted % of the net credit sales in the current period as bad (BDA)

Nov 1 The predicted ~~amount for next period~~ % of net credit sales for this period (balance carried forward)

- total allowed bad debts from **all** past periods including the current period?

- Note that there won’t always be a bad debt happening in the period. If that happens you exclude it but you still do everything else in the ledger