---
---
Identify and define key words in the topic
Quote, guiding verbs, key ideas/concepts and directives.
Brainstorm synonyms, similar words/ideas for the key words in the topic.
Re-write the topic with your substitute words to demonstrate comprehension. 
To help determine a contention (main argument), ask yourself questions about the prompt to generate ideas
Draft a contention. Ensure it has a belief and a reason. 
Brainstorm ideas, events, characters, symbols, quotes etc. that help to facilitate analysis in support of the contention
Group ideas into a Cause, Response, Consequence sequence and identify the three sub-arguments that will form each paragraph.
Collect evidence to support each argument.


According to rubric, what do you need to include
Examine critically (rather than explain-> another level of analysis):
- explicit and implicit ideas
- concerns
- values
- discussion of character, setting, and at least 2 other aspects
Examine critically + clarify
- connection between ideas + values of the text in response to topic
Evidence
- integrated with precision and control
- examine critically the ways in which ideas are presented in the text in consideration of the topic
- vocab, text structures and language features
Flow
- structure
	- sequenced
	- coherent
	- cohesive
- language
	- nuanced
	- appropriate
	- accurate metalanguage
	- examine the text fluently and critically

Don't explain, but critically examine.


Identity etc
- primary is finding one's own purpose
- secondary is basing one's purpose off society's interpretation/those around them
Gender
- primary is basing off stereotypes/society
- seconday is breaking free from these and pursuning one's own desires.


the Next level, you are saying that all these things that malouf does represent/convey _ , but why is he conveying all this, what are all the strings being pulled in this way?
- what happens as a result of these things being framed in this way, what is he essentially able to do? And what about when everything comes together (final sentence)?