---
---
*A brief set of statements outlining the purpose of the experiment. This should include a summary of how this will be conducted as well as identification of the independent and dependent variable.*   

- Is the **main purpose** of an investigation and what you **hope to achieve**.
- Each aim should directly relate to the **variables** in the hypothesis, describing how each will be **studied** or **measured**.
- Must include explicit reference to the **independent** and **dependent** variable.

**Rubric**

The aim is clearly stated. Includes the independent and dependent variable.

The aim is clearly stated and includes the independent and dependent variable

- aim is clearly stated
- Independent, dependent and controlled variables are clearly and accurately identified

Aim is clearly stated; all variables correctly identified
- Used to describe the investigation in detail.
---

To investigate the effect of [iv] on [dv]. This will be done by [details of what you changed and measured] 
- Eg: *To investigate the effect of temperature on the rate of photosynthesis in tomato plants at 20, 30, 40 and 50 degrees Celsius.*

To determine the optimal light intensity for devil’s ivy plants by measuring the height of the plant when exposed to different amounts of light. 
- IV: amount of light available to the plant
- DV: height of the plant (cm)

perfectly fine to start with "To" insead of "the aim of this experiment is to"

---
➡️ To determine the relationship between the angle of decline and the acceleration of a cart down a ramp. This will be done by measuring the acceleration of the cart down a pasco ramp with different angles of decline.
Ms Matheson: you needed to outline the angles you tested